README.md, before:

# cmd-ai

**cmd-ai** is a natural language shell assistant powered by AI. It turns plain English (or any prompt) into real, executable shell commands — with safety, explanation, history, and autocompletion built-in.

![Example Usage](example.png)

## Installation

To install `cmd-ai`, use the following command:

```bash
npm install -g cmd-ai
```

Ensure you have Node.js installed on your system before proceeding with the installation.

## Configuration

Before using the assistant, set your OpenAI API key:

```bash
ai config
```

Your key is securely stored in:

```bash
~/.ai-config.json
```

## Usage

Once installed, you can invoke this library using the `ai` command. For example:

```bash
ai Tell me how much free space is left on the disk
```

This will first display the suggested command based on your input. If you confirm by pressing "Enter," the command will then be executed.

Here some pre-defined commands:

```bash
ai [your task here] [--flags]
ai list all running Docker containers
ai remove all .DS_Store files recursively
ai config                         # Set your OpenAI API key
ai history                        # View past commands
ai man                            # Show help
ai install-autocomplete           # Automatically set up autocomplete
```

## Flags

- `--explain` – Ask AI to explain the command before returning it.
- `--dry` – Show the command but don’t execute it.
- `--help` or `-h` – Show help screen.

## Shell Autocompletion

Generate and install the autocompletion script:

```bash
ai install-autocomplete
```

This will:

- Generate the autocomplete script at `~/.cmd-ai-completion.sh`
- Add source `~/.cmd-ai-completion.sh` to your `.bashrc` or `.zshrc`

## Safety

`cmd-ai` is designed with safety in mind. It includes mechanisms to filter harmful or inappropriate content. However, always review AI-generated outputs before using them in critical applications.

## History

All AI-generated commands are saved (with timestamp and status) in:

```bash
~/.ai-command-history.json
```

View them using:

```bash
ai history
```

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License.

## Author

Made by Broda Noel (brodanoel@gmail.com)

## ⚠️ Disclaimer

The use of `cmd-ai` is entirely at your own risk.

This tool uses artificial intelligence to generate shell commands automatically. While it includes safety checks to prevent destructive operations, it **does not guarantee the accuracy, safety, or appropriateness** of any generated command.

**You are solely responsible** for reviewing and understanding every command before executing it.

The author(s) of this project **accept no liability** for data loss, system damage, security breaches, or any unintended consequences resulting from the use of this software.

Commit message:

Feature: local Qwen3 0.6b LLM model
Adds the ability to use a local Qwen3-0.6B model via @xenova/transformers as the default AI provider.
Users can now configure their preferred provider (local or openai) using 'ai config'.
Updates documentation to reflect the new provider options.

README.md, after:

# cmd-ai

**cmd-ai** is a natural language shell assistant powered by AI. It turns plain English (or any prompt) into real, executable shell commands — with safety, explanation, history, and autocompletion built-in.

By default, it uses a small local AI model (Qwen3-0.6B) for speed and privacy, but you can configure it to use the OpenAI API.

![Example Usage](example.png)

## Installation

To install `cmd-ai`, use the following command:

```bash
npm install -g cmd-ai
```

Ensure you have Node.js installed (version 18 or higher recommended) on your system before proceeding with the installation. The first time you use the local model, it will automatically download the model files (approximately 500MB), which may take some time.

## Configuration

Set your AI provider and potentially your OpenAI API key:

```bash
ai config
```

This command will guide you through choosing between the local (default) and openai providers.

- **local**: Uses the Qwen3-0.6B model running directly on your machine. No external API key is required for this option. The model is downloaded automatically on first use.
- **openai**: Uses the OpenAI API. You will need to provide your OpenAI API key for this option.

Your configuration is stored securely in:
```bash
~/.ai-config.json
```

## Usage

Once installed, you can invoke this library using the `ai` command. For example:

```bash
ai Tell me how much free space is left on the disk
```

This will first display the suggested command based on your input. If you confirm by pressing "Enter," the command will then be executed.

Here some pre-defined commands:

```bash
ai [your task here] [--flags]
ai list all running Docker containers
ai remove all .DS_Store files recursively
ai config                         # Set your OpenAI API key
ai history                        # View past commands
ai man                            # Show help
ai install-autocomplete           # Automatically set up autocomplete
```

## Flags

- `--explain` – Ask AI to explain the command before returning it.
- `--dry` – Show the command but don’t execute it.
- `--help` or `-h` – Show help screen.

## Shell Autocompletion

Generate and install the autocompletion script:

```bash
ai install-autocomplete
```

This will:

- Generate the autocomplete script at `~/.cmd-ai-completion.sh`
- Add source `~/.cmd-ai-completion.sh` to your `.bashrc` or `.zshrc`

## Safety

`cmd-ai` is designed with safety in mind. It includes mechanisms to filter harmful or inappropriate content. However, always review AI-generated outputs before using them in critical applications.

## History

All AI-generated commands are saved (with timestamp and status) in:

```bash
~/.ai-command-history.json
```

View them using:

```bash
ai history
```

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License.

## Author

Made by Broda Noel (brodanoel@gmail.com)

## ⚠️ Disclaimer

The use of `cmd-ai` is entirely at your own risk.

This tool uses artificial intelligence to generate shell commands automatically. While it includes safety checks to prevent destructive operations, it **does not guarantee the accuracy, safety, or appropriateness** of any generated command.

**You are solely responsible** for reviewing and understanding every command before executing it.

The author(s) of this project **accept no liability** for data loss, system damage, security breaches, or any unintended consequences resulting from the use of this software.
